Hello Ladies and Gentlemen, this is another episode of Cinema Summary
And, let's talk about something in particular:
Forrest Gump.
An extremely quotable film.
Inspiring, yet, tear-jerking.
Based on the novel of the same name, it stars Tom Hanks, as the titular Forrest Gump--
a mentally impaired renaissance man.
Equal parts heartwarming and heart breaking,
hilarious and horrific, a period piece and
yet so resonant with contemporary culture.
Forrest can run fast, but if you're pressed for time--here's Forrest Gump:
Gump:
In 1981, Forrest Gump recounts his life story
to strangers who sit next to him on a bench
in Savannah, Georgia.
On his first day of school in 1950s Greenbow,
Alabama, Forrest meets a girl named Jenny
Curran who, unlike the other children, immediately
befriends young Forrest.
Due to leg braces fitted to correct a curved
spine, Forrest is unable to walk properly.
One day, a young truck driver stays at the
boarding house that Forrest lives in with
his mother.
The young truck driver turns out to be Elvis
Presley who, while playing guitar for him,
becomes enthralled at the jerky hip thrusting
movements the hobbled Forrest makes while
trying to dance.
Later on, Elvis becomes famous by imitating
the dance.
The Theatrical adaptation of Forrest Gump
does away with some parts that were included
in the book.
In fact, Robert Zemeckis did this deliberately:
in the original book, Forrest Gump was looked
down upon far more harshly, even by his mother.
The perspective and outlook upon Forrest was
changed.
In Zemeckis’s mind, this change from negative
to positive beget more changes, especially
in regards to the realism of the movie.
If one thing changed severely, this would
in turn have a domino effect on the characters
and setting of the film.
Thus we have two somewhat different stories
today.
Forrest is often bullied because of his physical
disability and marginal intelligence.
One day, while trying to escape some bullies
chasing him, his braces fall off revealing
the young Forrest to be a very fast runner.
Despite his low intelligence quotient, Forrest's
new running ability leads to him receiving
a football scholarship to the University of
Alabama in the early 1960s, becoming a top
running back, being named on the All-American
team, and meeting President John F. Kennedy.
After his college graduation, he enlists in
the US Army, where he befriends a fellow soldier
named Bubba, who convinces Forrest to go into
the shrimping business with him when the war
is over.
In 1967, they are sent to Vietnam and, during
an ambush, Bubba is killed in action.
Forrest saves many of his platoon, including
his Lieutenant, Dan Taylor, who loses both
his legs.
Forrest is awarded the Medal of Honor for
his heroism.
While Forrest is in recovery for a gunshot
wound to his buttocks received while saving
his platoon-mates, he discovers a talent for
ping pong.
He becomes a ping pong celebrity and plays
competitively against Chinese teams in ping
pong diplomacy.
At an anti-war rally in Washington, D.C.,
Forrest briefly reunites with Jenny, who has
been living a hippie lifestyle.
While in D.C. in 1972, Forrest meets president
Richard Nixon and is put up in the Watergate
hotel, where he accidentally reveals the Watergate
scandal, ultimately forcing Nixon to resign.
The story of Forrest Gump is a ‘been there,
shaped history’.
With Forrest Gump being a completely fictional
character BUT the events he is involved with
are true.
Except for the Bubba Gump Shrimping business
which became real after the movie was released.
There are ‘artistic liberties’ taken in
regards to certain events but… overall it
is historically accurate in the same way that
buckshot hits the bullseye: within historical
authenticity with inaccuracies taken that
do not entirely affect history to be too incredibly
and wildly inaccurate.
Returning home, Forrest endorses a company
that makes ping pong paddles.
He uses the earnings to buy a shrimping boat,
fulfilling his promise to Bubba.
Taylor joins Forrest in 1974, and although
they initially have little success, after
their boat becomes the only one to survive
Hurricane Carmen, they pull in huge amounts
of shrimp.
They use their income to purchase a fleet
of shrimp boats.
Dan invests the money in Apple Computer(which
Forrest naively thinks is "some kind of fruit
company") and Forrest is financially secure
for the rest of his life, but gives half of
his earnings to Bubba's family.
He then returns home to see his mother's last
days.
One of the perhaps stranger things that was
cut out of the book was a section of the story
wherein Forrest becomes an astronaut and crash
lands on the moon.
Whilst there, he meets an ape called Sue,
and together they return back to earth crash
landing in a jungle, filled with cannibals.
What also changes is the ending.
Whereas the film ostensibly has the shrimping
business be late middle and penultimate part
of the film, the creation of the shrimping
business is actually the ending to the original
book.
In the late 1970s, Jenny returns to visit
Forrest and he soon proposes to her.
She declines, but slips into his bedroom and
makes love to him that night before leaving
early the next morning.
Heartbroken, Forrest elects to go for a run.
He decides to keep running across the country
several times, over three and a half years,
becoming famous in the process.
In the present, Forrest reveals that he is
waiting at the bus stop because he received
a letter from Jenny who, having seen him run
on televison, asked him to visit her.
Reunited with Jenny, she introduces him to
his son, named Forrest Gump, Jr. Jenny tells
Forrest she is sick with an unknown virus.
The three move back to Greenbow, Alabama.
Jenny and Forrest finally marry but she dies
a year later.
The movie ends as Forrest and his son await the school bus on Forrest Jr.'s first day of school.